FRANKENSTEIN; OR, THE MODERN PROMETHEUS
Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley

LETTER I

To Mrs. Saville, England.

St. Petersburgh, Dec. 11th, 17—.

You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the commencement of an enterprise
which you have regarded with such evil forebodings. I arrived here yesterday, and my first task
is to assure my dear sister of my welfare and increasing confidence in the success of my
undertaking.

I am already far north of London, and as I walk in the streets of Petersburgh I feel a cold
northern breeze play upon my cheeks. This breeze gives me a foretaste of those icy climes. I
try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is merely a region of frost and desolation; it ever
presents itself to my imagination as a country of beauty and delight. There the sun is always
visible, its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a perpetual splendour.

I may there discover the wondrous power which attracts the needle and may regulate a thousand
celestial observations that require only this voyage to make their seeming eccentricities
consistent forever. I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world
never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man.

LETTER II

To Mrs. Saville, England.

Archangel, 28th March, 17—.

How slowly the time passes here, encompassed as I am by frost and snow! Yet a second step is
taken towards my enterprise. I have hired a vessel and am occupied in collecting my sailors;
those whom I have already engaged appear to be men on whom I can depend and are certainly
possessed of dauntless courage.

But I have one want which I have never yet been able to satisfy: I have no friend. When I am
glowing with the enthusiasm of success there will be none to participate in my joy; if I am
assailed by disappointment, no one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection. I desire the
company of a man who could sympathize with me, whose eyes would reply to mine.

CHAPTER I

I am by birth a Genevese, and my family is one of the most distinguished of that republic. My
ancestors had been for many years counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several
public situations with honour and reputation. He was respected by all who knew him for his
integrity and untiring attention to public business.

As circumstances unfolded, my father's closest friend lost his fortune and withdrew with his
daughter into obscurity. My father sought him with the spirit of friendship, but arrived too
late to save him. He then became a protector to the orphaned daughter. The affection that grew
between them shaped the peaceful household in which my earliest years were passed.
