PRIDE AND PREJUDICE
Jane Austen

CHAPTER I

It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must
be in want of a wife. However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his
first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding
families that he is considered the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters.

"My dear Mr. Bennet," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that Netherfield Park is
let at last?"

Mr. Bennet replied that he had not.

"But it is," returned she, "for Mrs. Long has just been here, and she told me all about it."

Mr. Bennet made no answer.

"Do you not want to know who has taken it?" cried his wife impatiently.

"You want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."

This was invitation enough. Mrs. Bennet explained that Netherfield had been taken by a young
man of large fortune from the north of England. He had come down on Monday in a chaise and four
to see the place and had been so delighted with it that he agreed with Mr. Morris immediately.
He was to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants were to be in the house
by the end of the next week.

"What is his name?"

"Bingley."

"Is he married or single?"

"Oh! Single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune; four or five thousand a year.
What a fine thing for our girls!"

Mr. Bennet observed that he could not see how it affected them. His wife replied that she was
thinking of his marrying one of them, and insisted that Mr. Bennet must visit him as soon as he
came. Mr. Bennet calmly resisted every argument, teasing his wife with the possibility that
Mr. Bingley might prefer her to any of their daughters.

CHAPTER II

Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. He had always intended to
visit him, though to the last assuring his wife that he should not go. The disclosure came in
the evening after the visit had been paid, when he suddenly addressed his daughter Elizabeth
and asked whether she thought Mr. Bingley would like the cap she was trimming.
