THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES
Arthur Conan Doyle

A SCANDAL IN BOHEMIA

I

To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman. I have seldom heard him mention her under any other
name. In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt
any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly, were
abhorrent to his cold, precise, but admirably balanced mind. He was, I take it, the most perfect
reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen, but as a lover he would have placed
himself in a false position.

I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us away from each other. My own
complete happiness and the home-centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds
himself master of his own establishment were sufficient to absorb all my attention. Holmes,
who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul, remained in our lodgings in
Baker Street, buried among his old books and alternating from week to week between cocaine and
ambition, the drowsiness of the drug and the fierce energy of his own keen nature.

One night I was returning from a journey to a patient when my way led me through Baker Street.
As I passed the well-remembered door, which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing
and with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet, I was seized with a keen desire to see
Holmes again. His rooms were brilliantly lit, and as I looked up I saw his tall, spare figure
pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind. He was pacing the room swiftly and eagerly,
with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him.

To me, who knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own story. He was
at work again. He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some
new problem. I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my
own.

His manner was not effusive. It seldom was; but I think he was glad to see me. With hardly a
word spoken, he waved me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a spirit
case and a gasogene in the corner. Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his
singular introspective fashion.

"Wedlock suits you," he remarked. "I think, Watson, that you have put on seven and a half
pounds since I saw you."

I answered that it was seven. He insisted that he should have thought a little more, then
deduced from the state of my shoes that I had lately been very wet and had a clumsy servant.
The rapid chain of observation, infuriating and delightful as ever, ended only when I asked how
he knew what I had not told him.

Holmes laughed and pointed to the scratches near the heel, where six almost parallel cuts had
been made by someone carelessly scraping away crusted mud. The world was full of obvious things
which nobody by any chance ever observed.
